thought I could update some of the
earliest things we've been doing for 12
years on saster on hiring to Great VP
sales this is some of our earliest
content from the early days it it really
took off and so I wanted to take a
pause and think one of the 10 mistakes
that Founders are making today at
2024 when they make the classic VP of
sales higher and on the old days of SAS
I made up a statistic I said 70% of
first vpa sales don't work out I think I
surveyed 11 people and I think 7.8 of
them said it so I think I coined 70%
I've done surveys on LinkedIn for
thousands of people they've confirmed it
and you might think 12 years on we would
be getting better at this we would be
getting better at making this critical
higher right as Founders but I can tell
you across my portfolio across cosos I
talked to we're not we're just as bad as
it as as ever and I'm going to walk
through 10 mistakes Founders are still
making and some things were getting
worse my only hope is that one or two of
these stick and you make less of a
mistake but the metap point it took me
11 years to figure out one thing on this
11 years I'm embarrassed I knew a lot of
this 12 years ago it took me 11 years to
figure this out it might be one of the
10 points so it might be redundant but
if you make a critical higher in VP of
sales or any role at your startup VP of
anything it's your fault it's your fault
I blamed my first M hire as VPS sales I
blamed him for not doing the job for
hiring terrible people for writing a
letter to my board saying I was
incompetent I blamed him for that okay I
did until about last
year it took me 11 years or 12 years to
realize it's my fault I hired him your
VPS your Executives anyone on your team
can never do enough due diligence they
can never understand what your go to
market motion is like what your metrics
are like what your business is when I do
Investments I interview lot of VPS for
the founders at 1 million 10 million 20
million 60 million in ARR and I try to
go last I try to be the last one for
them to interview and I always ask him
like a basic question I'm like do you
know how much revenue the company has do
you know how fast they're growing do you
know how many sales folks are on the
sales team nine out of 10 of the
executives have no
idea and we can mock them we say how
could you spent eight hours two meeting
two hours with the co one with the CTO
one with how could you not know these
things and yeah the best ones do know
but all of a sudden it clicked on me we
don't it's our faults we don't qualify
candidates out enough we move too
quickly we don't do reference checks
since March 2020 we want to get it done
and it's always our fault the candidate
can never knew enough diligence so it's
always your fault that's my metal
learning that I want to talk through but
okay what are the 10 mistakes or 10
points
now this one is newer this has become a
Vibe what what did Paul Graham call it
founder mode did anybody read this
anyone here of this founder mode thing I
think a few people saw it
great be you founder mode does not work
for sales it does not work for inside
sales it does not work for there are
elements of it that work which we'll
talk about there are elements that it
work but you need a sales team to scale
sales you do founder mode in sales means
not exiting sales and we'll talk about
that a bit even if we don't let me hit
it the number one mistake that CEOs
Founders make when they hire a vpa sales
is they exit sales we've talked about it
this sun saster they're tired they've
been doing founder L sales they hire
Linda they hire Bob they hire Amelia
they hire Jason and they're out of here
they leave sales and they disappear for
six months and sales goes in the toilet
because the vpa sales doesn't know the
product they don't know the customers
they don't know what happened they were
never trading they were never onboarding
again and again Founders exit sales and
the RV Sals you cannot do that you have
to spend just as much time
in sales after you hire someone as you
did before it's just your time should
change you should be more a Midler a
great VP sales will grab you and bring
you into 10 deals a month instead of you
having to do it but you'll never get the
time
back but when I see Founders doing which
is newer is they're either staying
founder Le too long or they're reverting
to founder Le they're reverting and look
if you've got you're closing Million
Dollar Deals and you have two reps
working for you
500k 400k deals you could probably even
get to 8 to 10 million being founder Le
you don't need that many people but even
there you there's too much time there's
too much to do and so I see Founders not
even thinking about hiring a real VPS
sales until 8 10 12 millionaire or it's
too late there's too many people and I
see a new thing with some of the best
Founders I know who got burned they've
had a mish hire for their first set of
sales and then their second sometimes
they third and they're like Frack it
fracket I'm going back I'm rolling up my
sleeves like Paul Graham said and we're
going back to founder lead we're at 17
million a I'm going to do it all myself
I know we have four products and 80
people at the company and I got 11 VCS
but I'm going to be the I was never that
good at it but I'm going to be the VP of
sales now I tried to do that myself as a
Founder I lasted four days I couldn't
handle the 12 folks on our team I
couldn't handle it maybe you can okay
but when you get big it's too much you
can't run outbounds yourself you can't
do you can't spend your entire week
doing an ABM strategy
you can't be in every single deal it
doesn't work so if you make a mish hire
or
two and you go back founder because you
got no choice because it's your fault
but you had to let Jason or Amelia go
it's fine for a month a quarter but
start recruiting the next day the next
week when it doesn't work out you cannot
go without AE of sales for a year and
get from 10 to 20 to 40 to 80 there is
too much human capital required sales
has no efficiencies whatsoever in it you
need even more people the the bigger you
get it has dise efficiencies of scale
software is wonderful in theory you
write it once it can be read everywhere
this has worked great since the days of
floppy discs and DVD ROMs it has never
worked in sales and never will you will
need to hire headcount infinitely
linearly with revenue and you can't do
it without help so this is my advice
even if you're not
sure buy 2 million a or be hiring your
first head of sales and we'll chat about
the mistakes if it doesn't work out hire
another and if you go back to founder
lead don't stay whatever you don't stay
there Paul Graham may or may not he's
much smarter than me I am much richer
much better investor but he never ran a
Founder Le sales company okay he didn't
do it and he didn't mean founder maybe
you did but in my mind he did not mean
founder mode or whatever it's called to
mean you be the VP of sales of 23
million a or even six don't go back this
is a big
mistake okay next one and this one is
new too maybe this was true before that
little bug went around in 2020 maybe it
was always true but frean a it is the
truest thing in hiring any VP
today whether it was being locked up in
our backyards for eight months whether
it was the markets exploded in 2021
coming down in 22 crashing in 20 there's
been so much change in four years we are
full of Executives that are the jaded
the broken and the done the jaded the
broken and the done they need a job okay
that side hustle as a fractional cxo
didn't work out their clients dried up
they need a job again they're back out
on the market sometimes that can work
don't get me wrong or the 11 side
hustles they were running I don't know
but we've all been through so much
here's the issue when we started saster
you couldn't find any VPS there weren't
any VPS that had come out of data dog or
or clavo or Bill that are here the
CO's here any of these great companies
they just there were only so many
Executives when we started P today
there's 100 public SAS companies that
are all turning over directors and VPS
and Senior directors and Senior managers
hundreds of them every year and you will
want to hire one of them even NE even
folks that are here a Duplo Cloud a
notion whoever we can read them here a
G2 folks great folks will leave G2 or
whomever and you'll want to hire some of
them and these are great companies but
you got to be careful too many folks are
jaded broken or done and I guess so the
same thing but I'll give you a few tells
don't hire these people if they're we
need Pirates and Romantics in your
startup you need folks that want to go
on this crazy Journey with you not phone
it in from home not phone it in working
18 hours at home and just managing
people you don't need that so number one
don't hire the jaded the one literally
four minutes in your interview they're
telling you how the co or the VC screwed
them over I can't tell you how many
times I heard it I crushed it at my last
startup that didn't make it and sales
went down when I was there but it wasn't
my fault it was that stupid CEO in no
sales that dumb CEO that idiotic
medaling coo I'm sure there's truth in
that anyone that says it I'm sure
there's truth don't hire them they're
going to think the same thing of you
about three weeks in okay they're gonna
think the same thing of you okay they
may be right but they're
broken the next
one I crushed it okay I took the company
from 1 million to 800 million
single-handedly myself but I made
nothing because the VC screwed me over
the VC screwed me over
we raised 500 million and sold for 80
million okay I don't think the VC
screwed you over okay you sold this is
called life I don't know if the Kristoff
got into this last presentation you sell
for less than you raise no one makes any
money okay I'm sorry crime me River but
this isn't charity there are no best
efforts points there's no participation
points folks this could be half the
presentation there's no participation
points in SAS I'm sorry you busted your
ass and the company sold for less than
it raised and no one made
that's life you didn't crush it okay so
anyone that tells you the VC screwed
them it didn't work that way there's
there is no magical deal out there where
the VCS 10x their money and this great
executive your meeting made nothing they
just the M Venture I can explain Venture
map doesn't work that way okay there
there are times when the VCS get their
money back onx and employees make
nothing that does happen and maybe
that's not fair at some level but that's
not crushing it making one extra money
in 10 years as a VC is not exactly
crushing is it that's a 0% return like
IR it's not it's not that great so you
got to let these folks go they related
cousin is the
broken they don't want to sell anymore
so many sales leaders I talked to don't
want to sell this is going to be a theme
don't confuse what they did and the
Beautiful PowerPoints they have and
their endless discussion of their
brilliant process and how they do
process and how great they are at
managing
process they don't want to sell anymore
but they need the job they don't want to
do it you got do they want to
sell ask here's the simple way you can
figure out if they're broken what do you
want to do Jason your first two weeks on
the job Amilia what do you want to do
your first two weeks on the job
Brendan oh I need to set up processes
don't make the hire if they don't say go
meet fraking customers the first two
weeks do not make the hire anyone that
wants the sale wants to be in deals the
first day the first week I want to go
I'm gonna get on the road my first week
and go meet your top 10 customers and
then my second week I'm gonna start
closing them that's what you want to
hear that's what you want to hear and
it's probably true but too many folks
worked from that Adu in their backyard
got bitter stock went up stock went down
thought they were millionaires W
Millionaires and now they just want to
manage a team and not sell there's too
many folks out there they just want to
manage a team and not sell do not hire
them they're
broken and the last ones which related
to it they're just done they're really
nice they've been a fractional C for now
four years they went fractional in June
when it was easy now in September
they've been fractional for more than
four years and they're nice and they and
again they have great strategy slides
they have great triangles and squares
and arrows going everywhere and how you
onboard 700 reps and they're patented
onboarding strategy but they're done
they're done again simple test for all
this what do you want to do your first
two weeks
Kristoff
Jame you don't hear customers don't not
even sell but that's good you want to
hear I'm going to go meet customers I'm
going to get on the road I'm going to go
talk to prospects that's what you want
to hear and I'm going to bring Brendan
and Sam with me I'm going to bring these
two guys with me but that that used to
be enough but there's too many folks
that just want to manage and not work
that think they have a couple folks to
bring with them which we'll talk about
it's not enough but you want to he go
meet
customers okay we hit this one I'm not
going to be redundant because I guess I
got it but I'm going to be redundant
anyway cuz you're all so many this was
not a mistake that I think we made
before March 2020
I got to say 80% of the BPS of sales
candidates that Founders that I know
invest in work with ask me to meet 80%
bring me this guy gal whatever no gender
they just they won't do the sales
themselves again process slides oh I
have my two weeks right here process not
meeting customers trust me it's 80% you
got to listen just because they talk the
talk about what how was so great a data
dog and how it was so terrific does not
mean they will do it anymore they got to
do sales themselves how long long
probably once you hit 200 million AR
they can get out of deals a little bit
but I think most of you are under 200
million AR and Maybe not maybe not right
there's this classic story that I've
told before if you're old OG saster and
then there's a newer version of it but
the classic story was one of one of our
first 10 in the old days biggest
customers was Groupon when Groupon was
exploding they went from zero to, 1500
sales reps in a year and a half they're
all using Adobe sign Echo sign great
almost seven figureure deal so we flew
out there in the middle of a terrible
Chicago winter it was like January or
February I had a really thin like track
sweatshirts that used to be in back then
they that a millimeter thick from Zazzle
wind was ripping through me at 20
degrees in Chicago go up there the
Groupon hanging out doing our pitch and
next door is fraking Mark benof who flew
in from Hawaii on his jet to me with
then 24-year-old Andrew Mason one of his
a new $50 million year customer cuz you
got to be in
sales he's still doing it Mark benof
said he still goes to Davos every year
cuz he sits at the top of the one
staircase there and he meets with 200
customers and Prospects and Davos flying
there now we can't out flight private it
is convenient it is convenient but
there's a point here right you got to
meet the customer so is it even at 200
million Salesforce is coming up on 30
billion and Mark benof still out there
hustling and meeting with customers if
your VP sales ain't Gunner C pass don't
matter what else you like them okay this
one a lot of you are going to want to
give on you're going to want to
challenge me on you're going to want to
cut a corner here you finally found
someone that's actually willing to to
leave their home okay that's willing to
actually go meet a customer in person
that's willing to actually sell and not
just manage a team you finally found
that it's sixes you four
months but they don't it's not clear
they really understand your product it's
a little complicated it's environmental
SAS it's a deep type of compliance it's
a new type of sock 7 or 11 or 82 and
they've never really done security
before but they worked at a sale half
these folks worked at a sales Le company
which their salespeople like how hard is
it to sell an e signature or sales loft
or Outreach I'm not saying it's it's
easy but if you've already used the tool
for the last five years you probably
have an intuitive sense of the product
going into to sell a complicated piece
of regulated software in a new industry
most people can't make the jump okay
that's an issue in and of
itself number one most important thing
do not give on this everyone has this is
no one does reference checks since March
2020 no one asked sales reps to do demos
before they hire them anymore horrific
error and everyone hires a VP of sales
that never learns the product until
after they start never there's a company
I invested in I I I love this company
they got to 10 million hired their third
VP of sales great guy came in six months
in sales were down way down but Hest
most honest guy in the world gets up in
the board meeting and he says I got to
be honest I didn't actually learn the
product when I started I thought I could
do it I thought I could do it I thought
the simple tagline of this company which
is great the tagline is great it turns
out you go in the customer just cut his
head off they wanted to know the Deep
ways that's integrated with 28 laders
how the workflows work why and
importantly for sales today why you
would win when they have 10 competitors
you cannot walk into a meeting in this
world when it is when some areas are in
a downturn I don't believe we're overall
in a downturn c but everything's harder
you can't in there and think you're
going to be a people person when
whomever Duplo cloud or drada or just
works walks in there they know the
fraking market cold they know when
you're weak they know how to fix they
know how to solve your problem as a
customer and Mr backs slabbing lunch guy
comes in and just wants to talk about
where do your kids go to school oh
really my kids go to newo which is right
over there that's great next okay I got
99 problems to solve and us talking
about sports or the Olympics or the tour
to Italy a solving one of my problems
and it just does not work I see folks
just get slaughtered in sales when
they're not product from the bottom to
the top from the bottom to the top we
are all such we are all every year we
are smarter buyers all of us up and down
the stack and you cannot go into that
meeting and not know the product it is
embarrassing it is embarrassing whatever
you do you can't hire a VP of sales that
is not willing and I know many will
challenge me on this sales leaders
they'll think about this and then
they'll come they're going to come back
to me three or four months later and say
you're right I wouldn't let them start
until they know the product folds I
wouldn't let them start now best of all
is literally give them the if you really
think they're so great give them the
offer agree on the comp agree on the
equity and say you know what now take a
month before you even show up and go
learn the pro I don't even want you
starting go to all over our webinars go
do do whatever you be you you show up
October a Halloween not tomorrow and you
show up an expert right and a related I
remember in the early days of Gusto jof
shares a very distinctive CEO but I
remember he had this thing that at the
time I thought was crazy which is when
Josh would hire a new executive I think
he wouldn't let him work for 60 days and
I think at this time we can ask him I
think we more wanted to make sure they
knew the the Gusto culture like you have
to wear slippers in the office not shoes
and there's a certain way of doing
business and maybe that was the goal but
there's something to really knowing the
company and the product as a leader
before you start and I just see train
wrecks you into a complicated space and
you don't know the product one of my
favorite companies I've ever invested in
they just broke up with their second BPA
sales after over a year and they closed
their first seven figureure deal the
other day seven figureure deal a
year the VP of sales allegedly was an
expert in the industry he had worked at
a competitive company before but always
had a team of SE sales engineers and
solution Architects with them never
learned the product in a year for this
seven figureure deal they left him
outside in the
lobby they left him outside because the
last big deal he embarrassed them not
because he's not smart or a good person
but he could not go in front of a
Fortune 500 CTO and talk API and
security with the fortune he embarrassed
them he embarrassed the founders so for
the next seven figure deal they left
first they left him in the lobby they
flew out and they left him in the lobby
and that was the right call because he
never learn he had maybe you can make
this work with 10,000 sees but most of
us don't have enough around
so I this is just
me maybe you could Wing this pre-2020
maybe you could wing it in 2021 when
people would buy anything with a pulse
in some categories okay maybe you
literally could I don't think this works
today either make sure their product exp
before you start force them to do a demo
that you believe that you would hire or
give them a vacation until they start
but don't let them start up thinking
that they will learn your product on day
one we don't have they'll close
nothing okay related point this one
seems so
obvious my
friends
but it's maybe the most important I know
I put it on five not one or 10 but it's
probably the most important point in
here whenever a vpa sales doesn't work
out with and I talk to the co and I
talked to the founders the other four
things are true were they a product
expert no okay did they really want to
sell nah well all these issues came up
were they checked out yeah did they bash
their last did they blame the VCS sure
yeah all these things then I asked them
at the very end again did you 100%
believe in Jason a did you know in your
heart and soul that she or he would be
successful and they always say no I
never I I got tired I'd been looking for
six months I needed an answer he was the
be Lin was the best one I could find and
we all have to settle at some level like
Mr Perfect M dashboards is not the right
call but they never believed they never
believed and the ones that fly when I
hired Brendan Cassidy who we've talked
about he probably here who had been the
first head of sales at LinkedIn I had
disagreement with one of my VCS who
thought he would wanted someone more
senior whatever this was years ago I
knew 100 freaking percent in my heart he
was the guy I knew it for a couple
reasons I knew because I done a
reference check with him about a year
prior and he gave me the best insights
of any sales Jer i' ever talked to just
in a reference check for about
recruiting I knew I wanted him but most
importantly even if I was wrong I knew I
want him so I backed him on anything
wherever he needed help and most
importantly you're job as Leaders with
your VPS is not to tell them what to do
it's to backfill them this is where the
founder mode comes in not to do their
job but to back not everyone can't be gr
at everything so you got to backfill
them if you 100% believe in them and
they need you in Chicago a Groupon in
the middle of the winner with a jacket
on you're going to be there if you don't
believe in them you're going to give up
on them they're going to fail don't hire
any VP doesn't even ask that you don't
100% believe in it it doesn't mean you
need to be 100% right but you have to
say in my gut I love Jason I love I love
Brendan I love Sam no matter what anyone
no matter what anyone on my board or any
my even the rest of my team the best
ones often your team will be split on
cuz they may be a threat to the way
things are the way they are but this is
the number one I always you really
believe in them no Founders know we have
that spider s of even if we haven't made
the higher we know who we think is that
that your jaw drops the best of the best
and don't make the higher it's not going
to work out if you don't
believe okay point six this seems minor
but again this is a new one over the
last couple
years this mythical full stack
salesperson mythical full stack we
talked a lot about this with s Blan who
is xzero brex in our Miami Meetup early
this year I'm going to come back to that
in a
second this does exist but it's rare and
it has to exist at Birth okay and what
do I mean is today everyone want there's
this meme there's this myth there's
founder mode but there's also this full
stack AE and full stack BP sales and
zero where you know what everything
you're graded out you I do my own
outbound I do my own qualification I do
I do my own training I do my own
onboarding on my own SE I close
everything I go from SDR to close to
everything and I get with these W list
there's nothing more frustrating than a
Founder than when half your sales team
just waits for the inbound lead to come
and that's all they do they just want
the inbound lead to come in and say I
want to buy today and then send them a
document to e signature that's half of
sales and SAS and I'll share data on
this tomorrow I'm not making it up and
it drives us nuts when we want this and
we think we want this full stack person
but they're really rare folks that
haven't done outbound they can't learn
on your dime folks that haven't done
Partnerships channels technical buyers
inperson price point the points I put at
and it doesn't exist for a sales rep
unless you train them from day Zero in
which case it's possible but you have to
only hire folks that have been full
stack that have earned their own soup
that have earned their own keep most
importantly for VPS of sales do not
expect a full stack VP of sales or C to
match happen ask them if outbound here's
a perfect example if out this is my real
point and I can give you so many stories
if you're if outbound is not part of
your model if it's 100% inbound then you
don't need an outbound expert today
maybe you want to add it okay if your
model's like 20% 50% 80% outbound and
you want to go up and you love this head
of sales but they've only done inbound
0% chance of success what if they're
going to spend a year learning outbound
they're going to go buy Nooks or some
other tool here and magically turn it on
these are great products that alone is
not enough if you've never done it
before another huge flag is direct
versus indirect Revenue how much revenue
you get direct or versus Partners I just
talked with the VP sales I've known for
over a decade that flamed out at ass
sass company at 40 million got fired
okay at 40 million and I said what
happened to this guy he it took me a
year to realize half our Revenue came
from Partners in the channel I'd never
done that before he said so not only did
it take him a year to figure something
that he should have figured out the
first week but he never leaned in on
this indirect selling cuz he was only a
direct selling guy okay he he didn't get
he couldn't be full stack Partnerships
channels can they sell to a technical
buyer like we talked about where they
left the the VPS Sals in the lobby right
are they willing to sell in person or
only on the phone this sounds this was a
big this was still a big deal before
2020 today it's a huge deal if you've
only sold again from your Adu or from
home and you're motion and and you sell
more when you go visit customers and
it's true of 96.84% of us and they're
not willing to
travel they're not going to start
traveling when they magically join you I
interviewed almost 40 VPS of sales last
year early last year only two were
actually willing to
travel you can laugh only two out of 40
my point there's a lot to read into that
but my point is don't expect your VPS
sales to do these things outbound
partnership indirect technical selling
travel that you if you know you need
them if they are already part of your
motion ask if they've done it before
just be kind how much outbound have you
done how much partnership sales have you
done how much Channel sales have you
done how much traveling did you do at
your last job do you mind oh I love it
like I can't stand being at home my
husband drives me nuts great okay but
You' got to ask these don't my The Meta
point is don't assume they will do all
of it most VPS the S zeros either won't
haven't or don't want
to okay the next couple ones and then we
can take questions with our remaining
time this one's an oldie this one hasn't
changed some of the this stuff is new is
I think new Vibes since 2020 especially
since 2023 this one slide I think I
wrote in 2012 2013 2014 2024
2025 but man this is brutal my friends
this is
brutal a a mish hire in a vpsl sets you
back to year the only thing that's
changed in my learning as we started it
is it's your fault not theirs it is your
fault if you make a mish hire you did
not do enough diligence you did not
spend enough time in person you didn't
over Zoom you did not understand that
actually they've never done Channel
sales they've actually never done
outbound you did not understand that
they are not they're they've never sold
to a technical buyer before they've
never sold in your industry before you
ski too many steps it's your fault but
it will set you back a year why a couple
of things the first one is when you make
a true M hire sales always goes down it
happened to me it happened to half the
people here this week or more you go in
in the product Le stage you're not a
great seller you're not a perfect closer
the product cold the customers love you
and then you disappear from sales and
you bring in someone that doesn't know
your product what do you think happens
sales goes down those deals don't close
even worse she brings in or he brings in
two reps that don't know the product
either now you've got three new sellers
on your team that don't know the product
or the industry throwing them at deals
where if just you and Linda did it
together they all would have closed they
all would have closed so it gets worse
and then they hire three and then they
hire 10 and all your money's gone okay
and then went after a month and and then
saster says only give him 30 days but No
One Believes it even though I wrote that
post and you give him 60 days and 90
days and then you're in if you have any
investors they say Jim's a nice guy he's
pretty good they bored you talk to him
twice give Jim another quarter so now
you're six months in seven months in and
then you go to let Jim go month seven
and he changes your mind because he's a
good sales guy and it's nine months and
he's hired 10 people and then you
finally move on from gy and you start
your search for six months you've lost a
year and millions of dollars this
avoidable story is again and again so
look there are certain Mish hires or or
mistakes you're going to make that are
very there's the old saying push down or
do the mistakes that are reversible slow
down the big ones that are irreversible
this one's in the middle it's not
irreversible but boy it's damaging so
when you're tired when you've been
looking for six months when you've
honestly interviewed 30 you're not
pretending you've interviewed 30
candidates like we do but you've really
interviewed 30
and you meet with Jason and you you
you're not 100% all in just realize push
on and find someone you love in life in
hiring as a co-founder find the one you
love because you're going to lose a year
when you settle it's not worth it you
think settling is good you think look
I'm I know I'm tired I know Jason's not
the greatest VP sales but at least I'll
have
somebody there is a little bit of
rarified err between very good and great
don't get me wrong that's taking risk
but when you settle sales will go down
all the money will be gone and they'll
hire 10 terrible reps it's not worth it
to buy yourself two weeks of mental
relief of having made the H it's not
worth it you'll lose the
year okay and these ones are updated
versions of older points but I got to
tie it all together so we've all done
it this mistake we actually we used to
make in the early days of sass all time
because we didn't have all the veterans
we didn't have all the folks that come
out a and Salesforce and actually
we had folks from Salesforce weard Sor
but there was there wasn't enough others
now again there's 100 public SAS
companies to recruit from so in the old
days we would hire folks that were to
Junior to do the role now we're hiring
hundreds of folks that are broken burnt
but certainly have the title on their
LinkedIn but still what are you going to
do so you can't hire the the SVP from
Salesforce or or trulo that
doesn't want to sell anymore you can't
make that hire so you can go for that
perfect Goldilocks person that has
everything at the right moment in time
in the right hour in their career and
yeah they have an offer from open Ai and
coher and glean and notion but they
still want to join your startup they've
never heard of of course they do of of
course they do because you're such a
great founder but so that Goldilocks
person probably doesn't exist so when
you decided the SB from D dog is wrong
they got fired because he never left the
Adu and you've decided Mr goldilock
doesn't exist and you got you realize
you got to hire a stretch you got to
hire a kid now this kid may be 60 or
maybe 26 I don't know but what I mean is
you got to hire someone on their Journey
with energy that's going on the way
because this is their shot to be your
head to sales of course of course you do
of course you need to stretch higher but
there's just one thing you have to do
when you're stretch higher they're not
going to have the full package they may
not have worked at the right place they
probably even got fired once if they
were pyro dramatic and passionate it's
okay getting fired from every job in
sales is probably bad getting fired just
once a good sign just once but you
cannot the whole point going back to the
first point of rever why you can't stay
in founder Le at the end of the day if
you can actually sell and you can learn
the product you can get on the road you
can talk to customers you can do the
sales process yourself as a VP sales not
skip it because you want to be a manager
but do it yourself then it all becomes
about human capital I've got to grow the
sales team from 2 to 4 to 8 to 16 32 64
128 because our revenue is doubling each
year whenever it's growing you have to
roughly grow headcount with your revenue
and sales you can't avoid it 500k quota
800k 400k it doesn't matter you can't
increase it to 4 million it don't work
that way so if your yielded quotas for
an a is 500,000 and you want to add 5
million of booking you need 10 10 scaled
reps and if you want to 50 million you
need 100 you can't get around the math
so at the end of the day if they know
the product and they can sell the most
important thing is recruiting VPS of
sales are the best Recruiters on your
management team because they're
constantly recruiting so make sure even
a stretch candidate that they have hired
two to three sales people that hit Cota
before not 20 not 200 but it's not
enough if they inherited a team it's not
enough if they were on a sales team it's
not enough if they were an SDR that got
promoted to manager but never hired any
of the sdrs they reported to her they
have to have found hired two people and
made them successful if they can figure
out how the hell to find two people in
this crazy world where everyone really
wants to work 10 hours a week from home
if they can find two people that can hit
quoted they can eventually find 200 for
you because it's hard to find two so ask
them who the two are nicely and then say
hey can I go talk with p and Robbie just
ask and if they're any good they'll
connect you on the meeting and you call
them up and just ask the question how is
it working how was it working with
Brendan what was it like how did he find
you oh he hunted me down right he Hunted
Me Down at this event here it was great
thing he lured me out of this company
and I closed 600k with him the next in
the next 12 months great story how'd you
do it with Robbie hear those stories no
one does this anymore you don't want to
do this because you want to believe that
linkedin's going to work out because
you're tired you don't want to do this
because you're worried what you're going
to hear you're worried
that they' never really hired two reps
before that they don't actually know how
to recruit cuz the folks that don't you
know what they do they show up first
they work on their process slides for a
couple weeks then they spool then they
tell you they're going to spool up a few
recruiters they worked with before that
they never really worked with before and
so three four months later they fired
two bottom of the barrel reps from some
recruiter they don't know great that
gets you
nowhere I've said it before but it's
worth saying again any great sales
leader always has a couple folks ready
to go with her the next day they and I
know you got to be careful with this
word this day but it's true this word
they groom them they groom them the best
sales leaders are meeting with tons of
folks up and down from SDR to AE to
senior and they're asking they're
they're I want to work with them I want
to work with them again or they're
meeting with VPS of sales that leave a
hot startup who is the best person on
your team Linda Amelia and Stacy and
they go me with them because it's half
the job at scale half the job is
recruiting so if they can't bring two
good people with them they'll never do
it and just go talk to them just it's
and I I asked so many cosos this
question okay you hired Jim does he have
any to bring with him yeah Jim's got a
couple of great folks to bring with him
did you talk to them no 80% chance those
folks aren't coming with Jim or they
don't exist
or they were somebody worked with it's
not true you got to talk to the two if
they can hire two great folks they can
hire 200 think about it it's true okay
penultimate point I'm forgetting what
the ultimate point is but this one's so
important this one is so important if if
you guys have
investors they're listen they're right
on many things they're almost always
wrong on a vpa
sales I can't tell you how many boards
I've been on how many startups I've been
on where every single VC is wrong
they're all wrong all of them they're
all wrong they all love the handsome 6'4
paratrooper that talks to talk in a deep
voice and looks good and a button down
they love him and he talks quot tainment
and and quota metrics and funnel
managements and he talks the talk and
he's got up I can't I don't know what a
Barone is but he talks all the great I
had
11.6% and I was at 11 president circles
I was at the and I love them and I was
at I knew Reed back when at at LinkedIn
and I knew whoever I knew them all I
knew Thiago and talk des and I knew the
ball then your board falls in love with
the name dropper parot Trooper they love
them they don't know they don't know
and why one most of VCS have never done
sales they've never done it and they
don't know do they give you terrible
advice the subtler one is there's more
and more VCS that were cosos and were
Founders back in the day and those are
great all things being equal pick one of
them not not not that big a deal we
could talk about it but it's nice to
have a VC who was a Founder a successful
founder there's a lot of reasons that's
comforting there's only so many slices
of your cap table you can give up it's
nice to have a successful SE the problem
is the company they founded 12 years ago
with a million dooll ACV in a different
industry is not yours it's not the same
product as selling to restaurants at 2K
a year it's not the same and just
because they know sales doesn't mean
they know your sales so they give you
bad advice too they're mapping it that's
so common so again just listen to your
VC's investors and it's not that they
won't have a few good but I just think
87.2% of the time they just give you the
wrong advice for VP Z so be nice nod
your head say thank you but if your gut
is if your gut isn't 100% don't make the
higher and again if your gut is 100%
they tell you what the wrong higher tell
them thank you I'd still make the higher
okay last one and then with whatever
time we have left I think we have time
I'll take any questions you guys want
um this is new it's old this is old but
it's new because in that earlier slide I
talk to so many Founders have given up
and gone back to founder lead sales
they've given up they've given up they
it's not just they made one bad vpa
sales hire they made two and they're
bured and they're tired and they Lo they
burned half the money and they lost a
year and they did it twice and they
realized shoot I'll just do the million
doll deal myself I'll just go up to the
customer and close it myself I've been
doing this for five years I'm tired of
it was just emailing with the COI
invested in this morning got the company
to 20 million 2015
2020 so from 2015 to 2020 got it to 20
million and then it and then he went to
20 million and then 20 million one
through three then went to founder that
finally found his guy got back to 40%
growth not 100% but back to 40% growth
and sold this company for 300 million
was that third BP of sales gave up for a
couple years gave up when did the
founder LED sales at 20 million in the
desert did it all himself but there was
churn and there were industry issues so
for every new customer he brought in
lost one and he was bailing out the boat
but he didn't have the help and he
couldn't for those two bad VPS of sales
and the terrible Co he couldn't get over
it and then he finally found the one he
loved and going from zero to 40% and
having a company that had no value to
300 million pretty big change so my
point is she is out
there she is out there there are even in
today's world there are ambitious folks
sales doesn't breed ambition the way it
did before March 2020 but it still
breeds ambition it's competitive the
best folks want in sales want their shot
they want their chance they want the
chance they want the bar they want the
big Equity they want the chance to put
that BP sales on their resume they want
their shots time in the sun especially
if they worked under a great one what
you'll find is the really charismatic
successful BPS of sales like on my own
team Sam blond brenon Cassy why are
those folks the heads of Revenue at
Rippling and Rex and so many other
companies they're all our team and so
many leaders gong why did our team yeah
they were great they were very good but
they also were breeded to want to be
Brendan or Sam they wanted it and they
went out and they' become the C's at 10
iconic leaders from ripling to gong to
brex and others they wanted it so these
ambitious folks are out there even and
give them their shot keep interviewing a
and if you don't think that there's a
great VP sales out there it's because
you've never worked with one this is
maybe the last point I'll make and take
a break this was an old maybe one of the
best blog posts I ever read in my entire
life was years ago a guy named Joe
Krauss who you won't know but he found
it excite which was an early Google
competitor that got bought for billions
and then he found it an early
collaboration company bought by Google
and one of the first things he wrote
when he was at Google is if you don't
think you need a general count a great
general counsel it's because you've
never worked with one you think legal is
stupid you don't see the point it's
wasting your time but when you worked
with a great when you're growing and you
have million contracts and risk and
you've worked with a great lawyer you're
like Jesus that's great turns out it
I've Rewritten this for for us it's true
of everything so many great CTO today
think they don't need a VP of
engineering I'm tired I don't want I
don't want someone that just does
process and wears a Blazer you don't
need that but if you've worked with
someone that is amazing you will never
go back when you've worked with a great
VP Adventure you will never go back so
many folks today are like oh I'll be the
VP product for ever I don't need someone
that like is working on a pixel in Gmail
understood have you ever worked with the
great VP product that could walk into an
Enterprise customer and make that
workflow work and close that sixf figure
deal with you once you have you worked
with an amazing one have you worked with
the VP product that went out and in his
first two weeks met with 50 customers
and came back with 10 insights you
didn't know about your customers you
probably have't I have then you'll want
that BPA product same with marketing and
it is true with vpa sales if you are
burnt if you made two Mish hires and
you're a little bit broken like Andy in
that story like many of us are and you
don't want to you don't want to get off
the floor and you want to stay in
founder mode trust me there are the
ambitious out there go find them you
will find them there are the ambitious
your product yeah okay maybe you do some
weird regulatory thing for Wastewater
management or maybe you do some weird
really weird part of of Defense security
or really weird part of the tech stack
that people aren't interested maybe
you're doing Advanced Fortran
Integrations and you think you can't
find anybody to do this you will find
somebody you will find somebody if
you're tenacious that loves it your
product is you're not that special your
product isn't that special your moment
the way you're bringing these elements
together very few things in software are
new you will find your purse and keep
hunting so those are my 10 thank you
appreciate it